core: bump django from 4.1.7 to 4.2 (#5238)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/troubleshooting/postgres/upgrade_kubernetes.md

---
title: Upgrading PostgreSQL on Kubernetes
---

> ## Placeholders

Reviewer: @BeryJu what is this section for (what does Placeholders mean?)?

Author: Basically just strings that are used in the comments below that might need to be replaced depending on the installation

> -   `authentik-postgresql-0` is the Kubernetes Pod running PostgreSQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `authentik-postgresql-0` is the Kubernetes Pod running PostgreSQL.
```

### Prerequisites

> This migration requires some downtime, in which authentik has to be stopped. To do this, run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This migration requires some downtime, during which authentik must be stopped. To do this, run the following command:
```

```shell
kubectl scale deploy --replicas 0 authentik-server
kubectl scale deploy --replicas 0 authentik-worker
```

> ### Dumping the current database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Dump the current database
```

Run `kubectl exec -it authentik-postgresql-0 -- bash` to get a shell in the PostgreSQL pod.

Run the following commands to dump the current data into a `.sql` file:

```shell
# This is the path where the PVC is mounted, so we'll place the dump here too
cd /bitnami/postgresql/
# Set the postgres password based on the `POSTGRES_POSTGRES_PASSWORD` environment variable
export PGPASSWORD=$POSTGRES_POSTGRES_PASSWORD
# Dump the authentik database into an sql file
pg_dump -U postgres $POSTGRES_DB > dump-11.sql
```

### Stopping PostgreSQL and starting the upgrade

To upgrade, change the following entries in your `values.yaml` used to deploy authentik:

```yaml
postgresql:
    diagnosticMode:
        enabled: true
    image:
        tag: 15.2.0-debian-11-r26
```

> And run `helm upgrade --install authentik authentik/authentik -f values.yaml` to apply these changes. Depending on your configuration, you might have to repeat the steps from [Prerequisites](#prerequisites).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now run `helm upgrade --install authentik authentik/authentik -f values.yaml` to apply these changes. Depending on your configuration, you might have to repeat the steps from [Prerequisites](#prerequisites).
```

After the upgrade is finished, you should have a new PostgreSQL pod running with the updated image.

### Removing the old data

> As the PVC mounted by the PostgreSQL pod still contains the old data, we need to remove/rename that data, so that PostgreSQL can initialize it with the new version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the PVC mounted by the PostgreSQL pod still contains the old data, we need to remove/rename that data, so that PostgreSQL can initialize it with the new version.
```

Run `kubectl exec -it authentik-postgresql-0 -- bash` to get a shell in the PostgreSQL pod.

Run the following commands to move the old data:

```shell
# This is the path where the PVC is mounted
cd /bitnami/postgresql/

> # Move Postgres' data folder to data-11, which is the version we're upgrading for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Move Postgres' data folder to data-11, which is the version we're upgrading to.
```

> # the data folder can also be deleted, however it is recommended to rename it first

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# The data folder can also be deleted; however it is recommended to rename it first
```

# in case the upgrade fails
mv data data-11
```

> ### Restarting PostgreSQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Restart PostgreSQL
```

> In the step [Stopping PostgreSQL and starting the upgrade](#stopping-postgresql-and-starting-the-upgrade), we enabled the _diagnostic mode_, which means the PostgreSQL pod is running, but the actual postgres process isn't running. Now that we've removed the old data directory, we can disable the diagnostic mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the step [Stop PostgreSQL and start the upgrade](#stopping-postgresql-and-starting-the-upgrade), we enabled the _diagnostic mode_, which means the PostgreSQL pod is running, but the actual Postgres process isn't running. Now that we've removed the old data directory, we can disable the diagnostic mode.
```

Once again, change the following entries in your `values.yaml` used to deploy authentik:

```yaml
postgresql:
    image:
        tag: 15.2.0-debian-11-r26
```

And once again run `helm upgrade --install authentik authentik/authentik -f values.yaml` to apply these changes. Depending on your configuration, you might have to repeat the steps from [Prerequisites](#prerequisites).

After the PostgreSQL pod is running again, we need to restore the data from the dump we created above.

Run `kubectl exec -it authentik-postgresql-0 -- bash` to get a shell in the PostgreSQL pod.

Run the following commands to restore the data:

```shell
# This is the path where the PVC is mounted
cd /bitnami/postgresql/

> # Set the postgres password based on the `POSTGRES_POSTGRES_PASSWORD` environment variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Set the Postgres password based on the `POSTGRES_POSTGRES_PASSWORD` environment variable.
```

export PGPASSWORD=$POSTGRES_POSTGRES_PASSWORD
psql -U postgres $POSTGRES_DB < dump-11.sql
```

> After the last command finishes, all of the data is restored, and you can restart authentik

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the last command finishes, all of the data is restored, and you can restart authentik.
```
